# A.Fundyense

Alexandrium fundyense is a toxic dinoflagellate that is responsible for many harmful blooms around the New England region, for which growth relies heavily on the water condition in the area. By using these water factors, I designed a prediction application that returns information about the predicted bloom's growth and toxicity. Multiple studies on A. fundyense dynamics were used to create a regression model that displayed the correlation between water conditions in a region and the A. fundyense level. From there, the equations from the regression model were placed into a java application that can predict an A. fundyense bloom and toxicity, along with a caption of how to prevent the bloom. The data from the application was analyzed with a two-tailed t-test. The application effectively gave back the correct information on the bloom, as tested using past A. fundyense blooms. through the revision of the java program, the application was refined to a standard deviation of only 0.213, thus being effective in preventing and stopping a harmful A. fundyense bloom. By passing the user-inputted information through the application's growth, toxicity, and advice classes, the final result incorporates the cell count per cm3 and a toxicity level into a JFrame. This application has the capabilities of predicting an A.fundyense bloom and mitigating its effects through the prediction of its effects and severity. This project concludes with a compilation of A. fundyense dynamics. Further research would allow for a more comprehensive study on the effects of natural conditions on A. fundyense blooms.
